Update Docker -> dockerfile (#1838)
enkidevs/curriculum: docker/fundamentals/images/dockerfile-ii.md

---
author: nem035
aspects:
  - introduction
  - workout
type: normal
category: must-know
links:
- '[Best practices for writing Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/){article}'
- '[Dockerfile reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/){documentation}'
---

> # Dockerfile (Part 2)

Reviewer: Let's name this one 

```suggestion
# Dockerfile Syntax

```

Reviewer: And also change the filename (slug)

Reviewer: Hmmm actually the first one is probably better as "Dockerfile Syntax" haha

Forget I said anything, it's good as is for now

Reviewer 2: how about:
1. Dockerfile Syntax
2. Dockerfile Instructions

Reviewer: Let's do

1. Dockerfile Format
2. Dockerfile Instructions

---

## Content

A Dockerfile must start with a `FROM` instruction which initializes a new build stage and sets the base image for subsequent instructions.

`FROM` may only be preceded by one or more `ARG` instructions, which represent externally passed build arguments into the image building process.

```bash
docker build . \
  --build-arg EXAMPLE="this is an"
```

A Dockerfile must contain at least the `CMD` or the `ENTRYPOINT` instruction to indicate the start command for an image.

The `RUN` instruction executes the commands in a new layer on top of the current image. Each successive `RUN` instruction builds a new image layer on top of the previous one.

Each Dockerfile instruction result gets cached.

When evaluating each instruction, Docker will look for an existing image in its cache that it can reuse, rather than creating a new (duplicate) image.

> This is why re-building images is faster than the initial build because we can re-use cached layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is why re-building an image is faster than the initial build because we can re-use the cached layers.
```
